README.md, before:

# Terminal Here

[![travis][travis-badge]][travis-link] [![melpa][melpa-badge]][melpa-link] [![melpa stable badge][melpa-stable-badge]][melpa-stable-link]

[travis-link]: https://travis-ci.org/davidshepherd7/terminal-here
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/davidshepherd7/terminal-here.svg?branch=master
[melpa-link]: http://melpa.org/#/terminal-here
[melpa-badge]: http://melpa.org/packages/terminal-here-badge.svg
[melpa-stable-link]: https://stable.melpa.org/#/terminal-here
[melpa-stable-badge]: https://stable.melpa.org/packages/terminal-here-badge.svg


An Emacs package to open an *external* terminal emulator in directories associated with the current buffer.


## Usage

Run `terminal-here-launch` to start a terminal in the current directory.

If the default command doesn't launch your preferred terminal you can set 
`terminal-here-terminal-command` to either a list containing the command and
arguments (e.g. `(list "my-terminal" "--foo")`)
or a function which takes a directory and returns such a list.

Recommended keybindings:

```
(require 'terminal-here)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-<f5>") #'terminal-here-launch)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-<f6>") #'terminal-here-project-launch)
```


## Platforms

Terminal-here has out-of-the-box support for some platforms, but will work anywhere with some customisation.

Out-of-the-box support tested on:

* Ubuntu 16.04 (but should work identically on any Debian-based system)
* Windows 10
* OSX

Should be supported out-of-the-box, but currently untested:

* Older versions of Windows

Requires setting `terminal-here-terminal-command` before use:

* Non-Debian-based UNIXes, because I haven't seen a standard way to open the user's preferred terminal

If you have problems just set `terminal-here-terminal-command` as described above.


## Remote directories

`terminal-here` can run ssh to open terminals in remote directories for files
opened with [tramp](https://www.gnu.org/software/tramp/#Overview). This may
require additional setup because of inconsistencies between different terminals.

If your terminal has a flag to treat the rest of the command line as the command
to run inside the terminal, you just need to set `terminal-here-command-flag` to
this flag. If not it may be impossible to get ssh support. Some examples are:

* `xterm`, `urxvt`: `-e` (this is the default)
* `gnome-terminal`: `-x`


## Alternatives

There are lots of built in ways to run terminals *inside* emacs (`shell`,
`eshell`, `ansi-term`, ...) but these can have problems like slow output speed
or incompatibility with existing configs. I currently prefer to run external
terminal emulators, YMMV.

A couple of
[places on](http://emacs.stackexchange.com/questions/7650/how-to-open-a-external-terminal-from-emacs)
[the internet](http://ergoemacs.org/emacs/emacs_dired_open_file_in_ext_apps.html) have instructions for running specific terminals from Emacs, but they are not as portable as they could be.

Commit message:

Add launch terminal with multiplexer functions.
New functions ‘terminal-here-project-launch-multiplexer’ and
‘terminal-here-launch-multiplexer’ to launch a terminal with a
‘screen’ or ‘tmux’ multiplexer.

* terminal-here.el (terminal-here-multiplexer,
terminal-here-multiplexers, terminal-here-multiplexer-new-session,
terminal-here-multiplexer-flags, terminal-here-multiplexer-session):
New variables.

(terminal-here-multiplexer-command, terminal-here-launch-multiplexer,
terminal-here-project-launch-multiplexer,
terminal-here-find-executable): New functions.

(terminal-here--ssh-command, terminal-here--term-command,
terminal-here-launch-in-directory, terminal-here-launch,
terminal-here-project-launch)[multiplexer]: New optional argument.

(terminal-here-not-null-symbol): New macro.

README.md, after:

# Terminal Here

[![travis][travis-badge]][travis-link] [![melpa][melpa-badge]][melpa-link] [![melpa stable badge][melpa-stable-badge]][melpa-stable-link]

[travis-link]: https://travis-ci.org/davidshepherd7/terminal-here
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/davidshepherd7/terminal-here.svg?branch=master
[melpa-link]: http://melpa.org/#/terminal-here
[melpa-badge]: http://melpa.org/packages/terminal-here-badge.svg
[melpa-stable-link]: https://stable.melpa.org/#/terminal-here
[melpa-stable-badge]: https://stable.melpa.org/packages/terminal-here-badge.svg


An Emacs package to open an *external* terminal emulator in directories associated with the current buffer.


## Usage

Run `terminal-here-launch` to start a terminal in the current directory.

If the default command doesn't launch your preferred terminal you can set 
`terminal-here-terminal-command` to either a list containing the command and
arguments (e.g. `(list "my-terminal" "--foo")`)
or a function which takes a directory and returns such a list.

If you have a terminal multiplexer `screen` or `tmux` you could start
them with <kbd>M-x terminal-here-launch-multiplexer</kbd> in current
working directory or in a project with
<kbd>M-x terminal-here-project-launch-multiplexer</kbd>.

Recommended keybindings:

```
(require 'terminal-here)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-<f5>") #'terminal-here-launch)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-<f6>") #'terminal-here-project-launch)
```


## Platforms

Terminal-here has out-of-the-box support for some platforms, but will work anywhere with some customisation.

Out-of-the-box support tested on:

* Ubuntu 16.04 (but should work identically on any Debian-based system)
* Windows 10
* OSX

Should be supported out-of-the-box, but currently untested:

* Older versions of Windows

Requires setting `terminal-here-terminal-command` before use:

* Non-Debian-based UNIXes, because I haven't seen a standard way to open the user's preferred terminal

If you have problems just set `terminal-here-terminal-command` as described above.


## Remote directories

`terminal-here` can run ssh to open terminals in remote directories for files
opened with [tramp](https://www.gnu.org/software/tramp/#Overview). This may
require additional setup because of inconsistencies between different terminals.

If your terminal has a flag to treat the rest of the command line as the command
to run inside the terminal, you just need to set `terminal-here-command-flag` to
this flag. If not it may be impossible to get ssh support. Some examples are:

* `xterm`, `urxvt`: `-e` (this is the default)
* `gnome-terminal`: `-x`


## Alternatives

There are lots of built in ways to run terminals *inside* emacs (`shell`,
`eshell`, `ansi-term`, ...) but these can have problems like slow output speed
or incompatibility with existing configs. I currently prefer to run external
terminal emulators, YMMV.

A couple of
[places on](http://emacs.stackexchange.com/questions/7650/how-to-open-a-external-terminal-from-emacs)
[the internet](http://ergoemacs.org/emacs/emacs_dired_open_file_in_ext_apps.html) have instructions for running specific terminals from Emacs, but they are not as portable as they could be.
